During the history
of deep learning,
many researchers
including some very
well-known researchers,
sometimes proposed
optimization algorithms
and show they work well
in a few problems.
But those optimization
algorithms
subsequently were
shown not to really
generalize that well to
the wide range of neural
networks you might
want to train.
Over time, I think
the deep learning community
actually developed
some amount of skepticism
about new optimization
algorithms.
A lot of people felt that
gradient descent with
momentum really works well,
was difficult to propose
things that work much better.
RMSprop and the Adam
optimization algorithm,
which we'll talk
about in this video,
is one of those rare algorithms
that has really stood up,
and has been shown
to work well across
a wide range of deep
learning architectures.
This one of the algorithms
that I wouldn't
hesitate to recommend you try,
because many people have
tried it and seeing
it work well on many problems.
The Adam optimization
algorithm is
basically taking
momentum and RMSprop,
and putting them together.
Let's see how that works.
To implement Adam, you
initialize V_dw equals 0,
S_dw equals 0, and similarly
V_db, S_db equals 0.
Then on iteration t,
you would compute
the derivatives,
compute dw, db using
current mini-batch.
Usually, you do this with
mini-batch gradient descent,
and then you do
the momentum exponentially
weighted average.
V_dw equals Beta, but
now I'm going to call
this Beta_1 to distinguish
it from the hyperparameter,
Beta_2 we'll use for the
RMSprop portion of this.
This is exactly what we had
when we're implementing
momentum except they
have now called
the hyperparameter Beta
_1 instead of Beta,
and similarly you
have V_db as follows,
plus 1 minus Beta_1 times db,
and then you do the RMSprop,
like update as well.
Now you have a different
hyperparameter,
Beta_2, plus 1, minus
Beta_2 dw squared.
Again, the squaring there,
is element-wise squaring
of your derivatives, dw.
Then S_db is equal to this,
plus 1 minus Beta_2, times db.
This is the momentum-like update
with hyperparameter Beta_1,
and this is the
RMSprop-like update
with hyperparameter Beta_2.
In the typical
implementation of Adam,
you do implement
bias correction.
You're going to
have V corrected,
corrected means after bias
correction, dw equals V_dw,
divided by 1 minus Beta_1 ^t,
if you've done t
elevations, and similarly,
V_db corrected equals V_db
divided by 1 minus Beta_1^t,
and then similarly you implement
this bias correction on S
as well, so there's S_dw,
divided by 1 minus Beta_2^t,
and S_ db corrected equals
S_db divided by 1
minus Beta_2^t.
Finally, you perform the update.
W gets updated as W
minus Alpha times.
If we're just
implementing momentum,
you'd use V_dw, or
maybe V_dw corrected.
But now we add in the
RMSprop portion of this,
so we're also going to divide by
square root of S_dw corrected,
plus Epsilon, and similarly,
b gets updated as
a similar formula.
V_db corrected divided by
square root S corrected,
db plus Epsilon.
These algorithm
combines the effect of
gradient descent with momentum
together with gradient
descent with RMSprop.
This is commonly used
learning algorithm
that's proven to be very
effective for many
different neural networks
of a very wide variety
of architectures.
This algorithm has a
number of hyperparameters.
The learning rate hyperparameter
Alpha is still important,
and usually needs to be tuned,
so you just have to try
a range of values
and see what works.
We did a default choice
for Beta _1 is 0.9,
so this is the weighted
average of dw.
This is the momentum-like term.
The hyperparameter for Beta_2,
the authors of the
Adam paper inventors
the Adam algorithm
recommend 0.999.
Again, this is computing
the moving weighted
average of dw
squared as was db squared.
The choice of Epsilon
doesn't matter very much,
but the authors of the Adam
paper recommend a 10^minus 8,
but this parameter, you
really don't need to set it,
and it doesn't affect
performance much at all.
But when implementing Adam,
what people usually do is
just use a default values
of Beta_1 and Beta
_2, as was Epsilon.
I don't think anyone ever
really tuned Epsilon,
and then try a range of
values of Alpha to
see what works best.
You can also tune
Beta_1 and Beta_2,
but is not done that often
among the practitioners I know.
Where does the term
Adam come from?
Adam stands for adaptive
moment estimation,
so Beta_1 is computing the
mean of the derivatives.
This is called the first moment,
and Beta_2 is used to
compute exponentially weighted
average of the squares,
and that's called
the second moment.
That gives rise to the name
adaptive moment estimation.
But everyone just calls it
the Adam optimization algorithm.
By the way, one of
my long-term friends and
collaborators is
called Adam Coates.
Far as I know, this algorithm
doesn't have anything
to do with him,
except for the fact that I
think he uses it sometimes,
but sometimes I get
asked that question.
Just in case you're wondering.
That's it for the Adam
optimization algorithm.
With it, I think
you really train
your neural networks
much more quickly.
But before we wrap
up for this week,
let's keep talking about
hyperparameter tuning,
as well as gain some more
intuitions about what
the optimization problem for
neural networks looks like.
In the next video, we'll talk
about learning rate decay.